Tony Kaizen:
To listen is to respect.
Good morning, my friend. This is Coffee with Kaizen #5. The
day is Wednesday, August 18th, 2021. And today we're talking
about 8 simple words that you need to use in your next
argument or conflict to resolve the issue, the problem, the
situation, whatever it is. Uh, if you want to read a
transcript of this episode, you can go to
lifeinenglish.net/podcast/ck5. Now I know that link is very
long, so another thing that you can do is go to
lifeinenglish.net/episodes and it will be the newest episode
on the list. And there you can read the transcript and also
explanations of useful words and phrases and things like
that to get the complete experience and really learn with
this episode and the concepts that we'll be talking about
today. But...let's not waste any more time. Let's get into
this episode, man. So today I'm going to be sharing a short
little video from a man named Joseph Tan. He, I guess, is
the owner of a consulting company called Good Monday
Consulting. I'll leave all of his information in the
description. If you're watching this on YouTube or in the
show notes below the transcription, if you're looking at
this on my website. And I really like this video because I
think it's something that a lot of us really need to
understand. I've talked before about how listening can make
you a better speaker in any language, but I also think
listening can make you a better person in so many ways. It
can help you do so many more things in life that you can
never imagine, you know what I mean? And that's basically
what Joseph is gonna talk about today. So we're not going to
waste any time. I'm going to play the clip, explain a couple
things to you, and, uh, we'll go from there, alright? So
let's do it.
Joseph Tan:
Conflict happens when I'm so full of my own perspective, my
own point of view. Thus, it is like being in a house with
only one window. In order to resolve the conflict, I must
let in more light. Hence, my task is to create more windows
and welcome in more light into the conversation so that
there's more light than heat. Here are 8 words to help you
let in more light into your situation of conflict. Here are
the 8 words: "Help me see where you are coming from." Let me
say it again, "Help me see where you are coming from." Then
you shut up and listen.
To listen doesn't mean you agree, but to listen is to
respect. If you are humble enough, differences in
perspective will not lead to conflict. It will only lead to
enlightenment. Think about it.
Tony Kaizen:
So before we move any further in the episode, I'm gonna take
this time to explain a couple words and phrases that he used
during that clip, just so that the entire thing is clear to
you if you're just listening to this, alright? So the first
word is "conflict". The main topic or the main idea of this
entire episode. So "conflict" is a serious disagreement or
argument, typically one that lasts a long time, okay? Now,
next, he said "full of". You know, conflict happens when I'm
so full of my perspective, my thoughts, my point of view
that I don't have any space for the thoughts or perspective
of someone else. So when we say "full of", full of means
containing or holding as much or as many as possible, having
no empty space, so think of a glass of water. Eventually, if
you keep pouring water into the cup, it's going to be full.
There will be no more space for any more water. So he's
using it figuratively in this case by saying I'm so full of
my own perspective that there's no space for any difference
of opinion, any different perspective or different way of
seeing things. Now, the next one is "perspective" or "point
of view". And "perspective" is just a particular attitude
toward or a way of regarding or looking at something. So
it's the way that you see something- that's your
perspective, alright? So in a conflict, many times you're
not even interested in seeing things in a different way or
seeing things from that person's perspective or point of
view. Now, next, this one is, uh, advanced and really kind
of formal, and I wouldn't even recommend that you use this
word, but you will hear it from time to time. So I just want
you to understand it. It's the word "thus". T-H-U-S.
"Thus". And this means as a result or consequence of this.
Or you could say "therefore". That's another way of saying
"thus", it's "therefore". So in this case, when he says
"thus", he's saying conflict happens when I'm so full of my
own perspective and point of view, therefore, or as a result
of this or as a consequence of this, it's like being in a
house with only one window. I can only have one perspective
and there's not much light in the house. That's the idea.
The next word is "resolve". Now, maybe you know what this
means, but "resolve" just means to settle or find a solution
to a problem, a dispute, a conflict or something like that.
So you might hear the word resolve or conflict or end a
conflict or find a solution to a conflict. In my opinion,
they all have the same idea. Now, the next word is "hence",
which is very similar to "thus". The word "hence",
H-E-N-C-E, means as a consequence or for this reason. So
when he says in order to resolve the conflict, I must let in
more light, hence my task is to create more windows. He's
saying my duty or my responsibility is to let more light
into the house. Therefore, or because of this, or as a
result of this, as a consequence, for this reason, I must
create more windows to let more light in. This is another
one of those words that, in my opinion, is pretty formal.
You don't hear people say this every day, or at least I
don't hear people say this every day. I see it as much more
formal English. But, now you should have an idea of what it
means the next time you hear it. But, I would say, don't
worry about including this in your vocabulary. The words
"thus" or "hence", because in my experience we just don't
speak like that on a daily basis, okay? But now you should
have an idea of what they mean. So, next on the list is
"welcome in". To welcome in. Now, "to welcome" means to
greet someone in a polite, warm and friendly way, right?
When you welcome somebody into your house or your country or
the party, you're happy to see them and you welcome them in.
You receive them in a warm and friendly way. So when he's
saying "welcome in more light" or "welcome in a different
perspective", it's the same idea, just figuratively. So, be
open to a different perspective, a different light to shine
on this issue or this problem or this misunderstanding that
we're having. Now, the 8 words.
The 8 magic words to resolve this conflict. Help me see
where you are coming from. Now, what I want to explain here
is the words "coming from" when we use them together. So if
you say to someone you know or you see where they're coming
from, what you mean is that you understand why that person
has a particular opinion or perspective, even though in most
cases you don't agree with their opinion or their
perspective. So, we have an argument or a conflict or some
type of misunderstanding. And I say, "Help me see where
you're coming from", because we clearly have a difference of
opinion. And then you explain to me what you think. You
explain to me your perspective and your opinion and things
like that. And I don't agree, but I understand. So in that
case, I would say, "I see where you're coming from." I see
your viewpoint, your perspective. I see why you would think
that, okay? It makes sense to me, why you would think those
things, even though I don't agree. So I disagree. But I see
where you're coming from, okay? It's a very useful phrase.
Alright, next is "shut up". I'm sure you've heard this at
some point, if you've been learning English for any amount
of time. But let me just...explain it just in case. "Shut
up" is a rude way of telling someone to stop talking, to be
quiet. So when he says, "After you ask somebody to help them
see where you're coming from, you'd shut up". Stop talking,
be quiet and just listen to what they have to say. Don't
interrupt. Don't try to talk over them. Don't try to do
anything of the sort. Be silent and just listen. Just be
receiving of their message, welcome it in and consider it,
right? He says, "If you're humble enough". "Humble".
H-U-M-B-L-E. Humble is having or showing a modest or low
estimation of one's own importance. And that doesn't mean
that you don't think you're important. It doesn't mean that
you have low self-esteem. It doesn't mean that you don't
think highly of yourself. In my opinion, it's two different
things. I just think it's not overestimating your
importance. To me, that's what being humble is. It's
understanding you are no more important than anyone else.
You are no more significant or interesting or powerful or
intelligent, and you might be, let's, I mean, let's be for
real, that... it's...it's all relative, right? But being
"humble" is understanding that you're just...you're just
another person, just like everybody else. So for that
reason, you should be giving everybody else the same respect
and consideration that you expect to receive because you're
no better than anybody else just for being you, you know?
Anyway, when he says "humble enough", maybe that doesn't
make sense to you. If you're "humble enough", disagreements
should not lead into conflict.
For example, when he says "humble enough", he's saying if
you have a sufficient level of humility, right? So many
times we'll use this word "enough" in that way, you know,
like if you're hungry enough, then you'll actually go get
some food. You won't just sit down and complain that you're
hungry. Once you are hungry enough, you will go get some
food. Once you feel a sufficient level of hunger, you will
go get some food. So just understand that word "enough"
after an adjective is describing a sufficient level of,
okay? Hopefully that makes sense. Now, last word on the list
is "enlightenment". Enlightenment is the action or state of
attaining or having attained spiritual knowledge or insight.
And to enlighten, which is the verb, means to give someone
greater knowledge and understanding about a subject or a
situation. So we're really talking about that second
definition because we're not really referring to spiritual
knowledge here. So when we say "enlightenment", you know,
conversation, understanding, considering the other person's
perspective doesn't or shouldn't lead to conflict, it should
only lead to enlightenment. It should only lead to you
having a greater knowledge and understanding about the way
this person sees the world, the way this person sees that
particular situation, the way this person sees you. And
themselves, okay? That's the whole point of having a
discussion, not to win or to lose, right?
Because that's pointless. It's a waste of time. But to gain
some type of understanding at the end of the day, that's the
point, right? So it took longer than I expected to play the
video and to explain the vocabulary, the phrases and the
ideas and things like that. But I'm really interested in
this subject, so I might go deeper into this on the Life in
English podcast at some point. But, I still like to leave
you with what I believe was one of the most important
points, which is: "To listen, is to respect." In my opinion,
it's becoming less and less common to listen to other
people, which means it's becoming less and less common to
respect other people. What you got to remember, what you got
to understand is that if you only listen to yourself, if
you're only talking all the time, you're not learning
anything new. You don't learn anything by talking. You learn
by listening. So what does that mean? That means that if
you're only talking, talking, talking, if you're never
listening to other people, considering other people's
perspectives, you are getting dumber by the day. That's
what's happening. By never listening to other people, by
never considering other perspectives, points of views, ways
of seeing the world, possibilities and things like that, by
never showing the other person respect and just listening to
what they have to say, you are literally getting dumber.
You're getting dumber because you don't know everything,
you're not always right. Even though you may think you're
hot shit, you're just not, okay? So, be humble, show some
respect and just listen.
You might learn something.